
#comment

# s04e01 Captain Cook

cannibal: That's not the only thing around here that's "very small indeed". Your brain for example, is so minute, Baldrick, that if a hungry cannibal cracked your head open there wouldn't be enough inside to cover a small water-biscuit.

gargantuan: Clearly, Field Marshal Haig is about to make yet another gargantuan effort to move his drinks cabinet six inches closer to Berlin.

amoeba: There are amoeba on Saturn who can boil a better egg than you. Your Filet Mignon in sauce Bernaise look like dog-turds in glue.

anthrax: If you were to serve one of your meals in staff HQ you'd be arrested for the greatest mass poisoning since Lucretia Borgia invited 500 of her close friends around for a wine-and-anthrax party.

idiot-melchett: No, not really. I'm ordered to HQ. No doubt that idiot General Melchett is about to offer me some attractive new opportunities to have my brains blown out for Britain.

gainsborough: Very well sir. "List of personnel cleared for mission Gainsborough, as dictated by General C. H. Melchett: You and me, Darling, obviously. Field Marshal Haig, Field Marshal Haig's wife, all Field Marshal Haig's wife's friends, their families, their families' servants, their families' servants' tennis partners, and some chap I bumped into the mess the other day called Bernard."

hedgehogs: Impossible sir. I know from long experience that my men have all the artistic talent of a cluster of colourblind hedgehogs... in a bag.

bag-interior: Yes, I wonder if you've enjoyed, as I have sir, that marvellous painting in the National Portrait Gallery, "Bag Interior", by the colourblind hedgehog workshop of Sienna.





blunt: So let's recap. If I admit that I am in love - sorry, head over heels in love with Satan and all his little wizards - then you will remove my testicles with a blunt instrument resembling some kind of gardening tool and roast them over a large fire. Whereas if I don't admit that I'm in love with Satan and all his little wizards, you will hold me upside down in a vat of warm marmalade...AND remove my testicles with a blunt... oh I see.

concrete: I may have the body of a weak and feeble woman, but I have the heart and stomach of a concrete elephant.

contrafibularity: Oh, well, in that case, sir, I hope you will not object if I also offer the Doctor my most enthusiastic contrafibularities.

cowpats: The path of my life is strewn with cowpats from the Devil's own satanic herd.

fork: They do say, Mrs M, that verbal insults hurt more than physical pain. They are, of course, wrong, as you will soon discover when I stick this toasting fork into your head.

guilty: The suspect has his head placed upon a block, and an axe aimed at his neck. If the man is guilty, the axe will bounce off his neck — so we burn him. If the man is not guilty, the axe will simply slice his head off.

jumping: Am I jumping the gun, Baldrick, or are the words 'I have a cunning plan' marching with ill-deserved confidence in the direction of this conversation?

madman: He’s madder than Mad Jack McMad, the winner of last year’s Mr Madman competition.

milkman: And which Pitt would this be? Pitt the Toddler? Pitt the Embryo? Pitt the Glint in the Milkman's Eye?

mouse: I'm as poor as a church mouse, that's just had an enormous tax bill on the very day his wife ran off with another mouse, taking all the cheese.

mrbrain: The eyes are open, the mouth moves, but Mr Brain has long since departed, hasn’t he, Percy?

omnibus: Baldrick, I want you to take this and go out and buy a turkey so large, you'd think its mother had been rogered by an omnibus.

oxford: As cunning as a fox who's just been appointed Professor of Cunning at Oxford University?

pencil: Baldrick, believe me, eternity in the company of Beelzebub and all his hellish instruments of death will be a picnic compared to five minutes with me - and THIS pencil.

porn: A man may fight for many things. His country, his principles, his friends. The glistening tear on the cheek of a golden child. But personally, I'd mud-wrestle my own mother for a ton of cash, an amusing clock and a sack of French porn.

renaissance: To you, Baldrick, the Renaissance was something that just happened to other people, wasn't it?

rhinoceros: I couldnt be more petrified if a wild Rhinoceros had just come home from a hard day at the swamp and found me wearing his pyjamas, smoking his cigars and in bed with his wife.

subtle: Baldrick, you wouldn’t recognise a subtle plan if it painted itself purple and danced naked on a harpsicord singing 'subtle plans are here again'.

tombstone: I think I'll write my tombstone - 'Here lies Edmund Blackadder, and he's bloody annoyed'.

vikings: There hasn’t been a war run this badly since Olaf the hairy, King of all the Vikings, ordered 80,000 battle helmets with the horns on the inside.

wit: No, this is a different thing. It's spontaneous and it's called wit.


